---
title: Installing FNM on Your Mac using Fish Shell
description: FNM (Fast Node Manager) explained and how to get started.
position: 10
author:
  emoji: 🌀
  name: Dante Mogrim
  bio: I like people, places and things.
gif:
  src: https://media.giphy.com/media/W23bkTpyDVvRUF3UIi/giphy-downsized.gif
  alt: Fresh Prince saying 'You know what? Never mind man'.
tags:
  - cli
  - fish
  - fnm
---

> "What is FNM and why should I install it?" You might have heard of something called [NVM](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) (short for Node Version Manager). [FNM](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm) (short for Fast Node Manager) is, as you might have guessed, said to be an ~40x faster alternative. It is built in Rust and comes with cross-platform support.

To follow along you should have the following installed on your computer: 
- homebrew
- Visual Studio Code
- 'path'

## Installation
Start by opening up your terminal and running the following command:
```shell-script
$ brew install fnm
```

The process from here varies depending on your shell. If your using something other than fish, I recommend looking into [this part of their documentation](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm#shell-setup) for this following step.

If you're like me and your using [fish](), run the following command in your terminal:
```shell-script
$ touch ~/.config/fish/conf.d/fnm.fish
```

Now we've created a configuration file for FNM within our shell. We need to add a specific line inside it for it to work properly.

I like to handle things visually, so let's open it up and add the line from VSCode. Type the following commands:

```shell-script
$ cd ~/.config/fish/conf.d/
$ code .
```

Now that we have our file open in VSCode just add and save the following line in the `fnm.fish` file:
```shell-script
$ fnm env | source
```

## Usage
For more in depth examples there's [documentation available](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm/blob/master/docs/commands.md) but here are some basics:

Help/instruction menu:
```shell-script
$ fnm help
```

```shell-script
$ fnm --version
# Mine is currently 1.28.1
```

List all node versions that are available to download:
```shell-script
$ fnm list-remote
```

To see what versions of node that are currently installed on your computer:
```shell-script
$ fnm list
```

Print the current Node.js version in use:
```shell-script
$ fnm current
```





I cleared all prior Node.js installations to be able to use FNM as my sole Node.js provider.

So now for me to install the currently latest version of Node.js I'll be running the following command:
```shell-script
$ fnm install v17.1.0
```

Other versions of node that might be nice to alternate between:
```shell-script
$ fnm install v11.0.0
$ fnm install v16.0.0
```

To switch to 16:
```shell-script
$ fnm use v16
```
☝ Note! This will only last during the current session!
If you want to use 16 during a longer period of time, I would recommend switching it to your default and then switching back the latest version, once your finished.

To switch your default to 16:
```shell-script
$ fnm default v16
$ fnm current
# Output: v16.0.0
```

### Links